You can bribe the DM
Ask for things, please
Conflict among the party is acceptable. Conflict among the players is not. Don’t make things personal.
If you are having trouble with an encounter, try reducing the enemies hitpoints to 0, while keeping yours above 0.
Remember to check your inventory frequently.
If you don't know what to do on your turn, dodge.
No matter how high your Persuasion roll is, the King won't give up his kingdom after one conversation
You also get xp and loot by NOT killing everything you meet
Bards don't have to be horny
If you don't know where to go, try asking the locals about recent goings-on!
If combat is going badly, remember that most humanoids don't enjoy killing and might accept your surrender
Remember, there are no bad ideas, only unwanted consequences.
Difficulty in negotiating? Have you tried not being a dick?
Originality is overrated. Just have fun.
As a reminder, war crimes are still bad.
No matter how much fun you're having, remember that you're not the only person at the table
Don't be afraid of a retreat if combat isn't going well. It may seem cowardly, but cowardice is usually preferable to death
This game is tabletop, and your DM's responses aren't programmed. Think outside the box!
According to monster opticians, a beholder's eyesight is 20:20:20:20:20:20:20:20:20:20:14
If the campaign is getting too serious for you, recall that DMs often struggle to keep things serious at taverns
In D&D, the options are limitless and the consequences are mandatory
Be cautious and intelligent, and think things through. D&D does not let you restore from save files
Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes. Take Notes.
It is entirely valid to take a potion orally or as a suppository
You can make encounters easier by being more careful, communicating with your party, and bribing the DM
No, please. Roll to seduce an NPC. Your DM is just super excited to roleplay that.
Contrary to popular belief, for many things in a dungeon, you probably would want to touch it with a ten foot pole first
Worried you'll get easily murdered? Take the Dodge action and you'll be a lot harder to hit
The DM's role is to play with the players, not against them. As far as you know, anyway
Try to use your social skills often. Violence isn't always the answer, and maybe that monster can be reasoned with
Never split the party. NEVER SPLIT THE PARTY.
Keep track of your buffs, bonuses, abilities, and penalties. Your DM can't remember everything
If it's your first time playing D&D and you like the simple things or you're gonna be on your phone all night, play fighter
Play ranger to feel the thrill of the hunt, the wind in your hair, and a ferret crawling around in your tunic
If you play warlock, you have a lot of combat options, like eldritch blast,eldritch blast and even eldritch blast!
Spells rock, but books are for nerds. Play sorcerer to flex your magic and shun silly things like \reading\
Is your party dull? Are you not flirting with enough NPCs? Does your DM feel happy? Consider playing a bard
Play a cleric if you like worshipping fake gods and being under immense pressure to save the rest of your party
Playing monk is a great experience! Just get all the kung fu movie jokes out of your system before the game
I'd give you a good reason to play a rogue, but let's be honest, your party probably already has 3
Paladins: They're just like clerics, but with fewer commitment issues and more sharp objects to stab things with
When you play a druid, you can transform into a T-Rex. What more could you possibly want?!
Play a wizard if you want a character who likes writing things down and doing math just as much as you
If your Chaotic Neutral character decides to murder random people, you're not playing a Neutral character
Lawful Good doesn't mean Lawful Nice, and Chaotic Neutral doesn't mean Chaotic Stupid
Unaligned creatures don't comprehend the alignment concept. Players cannot be unaligned unless they're very dense.
Evil characters put themselves above others and will eat the last slice of pizza without asking anyone first
Good characters put others above themselves and will always pay back that money you lent them
Neutral characters have no particular sway toward a given axis and often list mayonnaise as their favourite condiment
Lawful characters obey a set of rules and always look both ways before crossing the street
You can start a new save file in D&D by striking your DM on the head with a heavy object
You can take a screenshot in D&D by touching your d20, your character sheet, and a pencil at the same time
You can open the options menu in D&D by writing a question on a sheet of paper and discreetly passing it to your DM
Arcana checks relate to your knowledge of magic, eldritch information, mystic tradition, and other nerd crap
Necromancy manipulates life and death energies. You can't cast these spells unless 60% of your wardrobe is black
With Conjuration magic, you can take the D&D tradition of making things up to its logical extreme
Evocation manipulates magical energy to produce a desired effect. All spells are secretly Evocation spells, in disguise.
You can use Divination magic to absolutely destroy any hopes your DM had of creating mystery and intrigue
Abjuration is the school of protective magic, perfect for people who claimed to have a force field in schoolyard games
Illusion magic deceives the minds of others, which is totally different from Enchantment, and way cooler
Alter the properties of objects with Transmutation and learn the joy of turning everything into a goat
Enchantment magic affects the minds of others. If you terrify the rogue with a sudden fireball, it's technically Enchantment
Sleight of Hand checks are great for stealing things. Do them all the time! There's nothing annoying about them!
Intimidation checks are what you use when Persuasion and Deception didn't work and you're starting to get pissed off
Throw out a Deception check if you need to fool someone! Please do this instead of actually lying to your DM
An Acrobatics check may be used if you need delicate finesse of motion - or if you really, really want to show off
Performance checks will finally give you the chance to turn your game into a full-on musical
Animal Handling checks! They're good for seeing if you can mount that random creature and... not much else, honestly
Do you want to play a deductive, clever hero, but you're limited by your feeble human mind? Roll Investigation checks
Use a persuasion check to win people over, make friends, or haggle! Only complete chumps pay full price
Medicine checks will let you diagnose an illness or stabilize someone. They cannot heal people. Please stop asking.
Religion checks will let you recall lore about different faiths, but it won't erase the feeling of sin in your heart
Nature checks are nice for knowing stuff about the wild, but you'll need survival if you want it not to kill you
A History check will let you recall lore and finally make you feel cool about passing that test on the Civil War
Suspicious of that NPC's intent? Roll an Insight check and become even more suspicious!
Use Perception checks often to see what's going on. Or, you know, you can just be oblivious. Up to you.
Athletics checks determine how well you can perform physical activities, like climbing or running touchdowns
Stealth checks can let you hide behind something in the area. How stupid would it be if you could just crouch slightly?
Your Charisma score measures your ability to sell a tomato-based fruit salad - which is, of course, salsa
Your Intelligence score measures how likely you are to know that a tomato is a fruit
Your Wisdom score measures how likely you are to know that a tomato shouldn't be in a fruit salad
Your Strength score measures how easily you could crush a tomato with your bare hands
Your Constitution score measures whether you could eat a rotten tomato without puking
Your Dexterity score measures how well you could dodge a tomato being thrown at you
Did you know that classes and subclasses will often grant unique and special features that you can actually use?
Most spells that target objects or creatures require the object or creature to be visible
Critical success only applies to attack rolls
If you want to know more about the land or the plants and beasts that live upon it, try a nature check
If you are vulnerable to a damage type, you take double damage from that type
If you are resistant to a damage type, you take half damage from that type
On high jumps, you cover a number of feet up to 3 + your Strength modifier if you have a 10 foot running start
High jumps without a running start only cover a number of feet up to half of your Strength modifier
On long jumps, you cover a number of feet up to your Strength score if you have a 10 foot running start
Long jumps without a running start only cover a number of feet up to half of your Strength score
Unless it avoids taking damage from a fall, a creature lands prone at the end of that fall
At the end of a fall, a creature takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 10 foot it fell, to a maximum of 20d6
Multiple instances of vulnerability or resistance only count once each
You can't hide from a creature that can see you clearly, and you give away your position if you make a noise
Until you are discovered or stop hiding, your Stealth check is contested by Perception checks of anyone actively searching
You can break up your movement on your turn, using some of your speed before and after your action
You can squeeze through a space if it's large enough for a creature one size smaller than you
When squeezing through a space, you have disadvantage on attack rolls and Dexterity saving throws
When squeezing, climbing, swimming, crawling, or being on rough terrain, each foot of movement costs an extra foot
If you don't want an enemy to make an opportunity attack against you as you move away, take the Disengage action
When dodging, any attack roll made against you has disadvantage if you can see the attacker
While dodging, you have advantage on Dexterity saving throws
With ability checks, rolling a 1 or 20 does not automatically determine success or failure
Some spells require concentration to maintain an ongoing effect, and you can't concentrate on two spells at once
To keep concentration, roll a Constitution save if you take damage. The DC is 10 or half the damage, whichever is higher
The effects of different spells add together while the durations of those spells overlap
Some spells can be cast as a ritual. Doing so takes 10 minutes longer but doesn't expend a spell slot.
If you're wearing armour, you need to be proficient in that armour in order to cast spells
A creature with darkvision can't discern color in darkness, only monochromatic shades
A creature with blindsight can perceive its surroundings without sight, kinda like Daredevil
A party travelling at a normal pace goes 300 feet in a minute, 3 miles in an hour, and 24 miles in a day
A party travelling at a fast pace goes 400 feet in a minute, 4 miles in an hour, and 30 miles in a day
A party travelling at a fast pace will suffer a -5 penalty to passive Perception scores
A party travelling at a slow pace goes 200 feet in a minute, 2 miles in an hour, and 18 miles in a day
A party travelling at a slow pace can use Stealth as they move
Your carrying capacity is, in pounds, your Strength score multiplied by 15
If you carry weight in excess of 5 times your Strength score, you are encumbered, which means your speed drops by 10 feet
If you carry weight in excess of 10 times your Strength score, you are heavily encumbered, which means your speed drops by 20 feet
While pushing or dragging weight in excess of your carrying capacity, your speed drops to 5 feet
You can push, drag, or lift a weight in pounds up to 30 times your your Strength score
While you are heavily encumbered, you have disadvantage on all rolls that use Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution
A target with half cover has a +2 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws
A target with three-quarters cover has a +5 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws
A target with total cover can't be targeted directly by an attack or a spell, though area of effect spells are fair game
When you reduce a creature to 0 hit points with a melee attack, you can decide to knock it out instead of killing it
When damage reduces you to 0 hit points, you die if the extra damage equals or exceeds your hit point maximum
At 0 hit points, you start making death saving throws, which have no bonuses you can add
You can stabalize a dying creature with a successful DC 10 Medicine check
If your stable, but not healed, you regain 1 hit point after 1d4 hours
If you're at 0 hit points, temporary hit points won't wake you up. Only real healing can do the job.
After three successful death saving throws, you become stable. You're not dead, just unconscious.
If you roll a 1 on a death saving throw, it counts as two failures
If you roll a 10 or higher on a death saving throw, it counts as a success
If you roll a 20 on a death saving throw, you regain 1 hit point
After three failed death saving throws, your character is dead
You are proficient in your unarmed strikes, and they deal bludgeoning damage equal to 1 + your Strength modifier
You can use an unarmed strike to make a melee attack without a weapon
If you roll a 20 on an attack roll, you automatically hit and roll all of the damage dice twice before adding modifiers
If you roll a 1 on an attack roll, you automatically miss your attack
To make a melee attack against a creature, it must be within your reach
Ranged attacks have disadvantage if the target is beyond regular range but still within long range
Your ranged attack rolls have disadvantage if an enemy that isn't incapacitated is within 5 feet of you and can see you
Using the attack action, you can make a melee attack to shove a creature, either to knock it prone or push it away
Using the attack action, you can make a melee attack to grapple a creature if you have one free hand
When two-weapon fighting, only add your modifier to the damage of the second attack if it's negative
You can use a bonus action to attack with a light melee weapon after attacking with one in your other hand
You can use your reaction to make an opportunity attack when a creature that you can see moves out of your reach
Take the Help action to give an ally advantage on their next ability check, or maybe even their next attack roll!
The ready action will let you act using your reaction before your next turn
To ready an action, you must specify both a triggering circumstance and what you will do when it happens
Long rests reduce your exhaustion level by 1, provided that you had some food and drink
Long rests restore all expended spell slots, although a few class options can get some back with a short rest
During long rests, you can recover all lost hit points and up to half of your total hit dice
A long rest is at least 8 hours during which you do nothing strenuous
A short rest is at least 1 hour during which you do nothing strenuous
During short rests, you can recover hit points by rolling your hit dice, adding your Constitution modifier each time
You can use time between adventures to tend to poisons, injuries, and diseases
You can use time between adventures to learn a new language or how to use a new set of tools
After combat, you can recover half of your expended ammunition by taking the Search action
At the first level of exhaustion, you have disadvantage on ability checks
At the second level of exhaustion, in addition to prior effects, your speed is halved
At the third level of exhaustion, in addition to prior effects, you have disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws
At the fourth level of exhaustion, in addition to prior effects, your hit point maximum is halved
At the fifth level of exhaustion, in addition to prior effects, your speed is reduced to 0
At the sixth level of exhaustion, you no longer suffer prior effects! You do, however, die immediately
Once during your turn, you can mount a creature within 5 feet or dismount. Doing so costs half your movement speed.
If you are knocked off your mount, you land prone in a space within 5 feet of it
If your mount is knocked prone, you can use your reaction to dismount as it falls and land on your feet
If an effect moves your mount against its will while you're on it, you must make a DC 10 dexterity saving throw or fall off
If an effect knocks you prone while you're mounted, you must make a DC 1- Dexterity saving throw or fall off
While mounted, you can either control your mount if it's been trained to accept a rider or have it act independently
Intelligent creatures, like dragons, sphinxes, and especially smart horses, act independently when used as a mount
Independent mounts maintain their own initiative order. They move and act as they wish, not restricted by their riders.
Controlled mounts match your initiative order when you mount them and can move and act as soon as you mount them
Controlled mounts can only take three actions: Dash, Disengage, and Dodge
Any willing creature that is at least one size larger than you and that has an appropriate anatomy can be your mount
If your mount provokes an attack of opportunity while you're on it, the attacker can target either you or the mount
Underwater, your melee weapon attacks have disadvantage - unless you have a swimming speed or the right weapon
Underwater, ranged weapons automatically miss outside of their normal range
Underwater, ranged weapons have disadvantage, unless the weapon is a crossbow, a net, or a thrown weapon
Underwater, daggers, javelins, shortswords, spears and tridents do not automatically have disadvantage
Creatures and objects that are fully immersed in water have resistance to fire damage
A creature can hold its breath for a number of minutes equal to 1 + its Constitution modifier (minimum of 30 seconds)
A suffocating creature can't regain hit points or be stabilized until it can breathe again
A weapon with the Two-Handed property requires two hands when you attack with it
A weapon with the Light property can be used with two-weapon fighting
A weapon with the versatile property can be used with one hand, but if you want more damage, you can use two hands
A weapon with the Thrown property can be thrown as a ranged attack, using the same modifier as its melee attack
A weapon with the Finesse property can be used with either your Dexterity or Strength modifier
A weapon with the Loading property can only be fired once when you use an action, bonus action, or reaction
A weapon with the Heavy property will impose disadvantage on Small creatures attempting to use it
Weapons with the Ammunition property need some kind of ammo to be used, and each attack expends one piece of ammo
A weapon with the Reach property adds 5 feet to your reach for the purposes of attacks and opportunity attacks with it
A blinded creature can't see and automatically fails all checks that require sight
An attack roll that hits an unconscious creature is a crit if the attacker is within 5 feet of the creature
To push a target, it must be no more than one size larger than you and must be within your reach
To push a target, you make an Athletics check contested by the target's Athletics or Acrobatics check
To grapple a target, it must be no more than one size larger than you and must be within reach
To grapple a target, you make an Athletics check contested by the target's Athletics or Acrobatics check
A grappled creature's speed becomes 0, and it can't benefit from any bonus to its speed
A grappled creature can use its action to escape, making an Athletics or Acrobatics check
The grappled condition ends if the grappler is incapacitated or an effect moves the grappled creature out of reach
Unless the creature you are grappling is much smaller than you, your speed is halved while dragging or carrying it
A paralyzed creature, in addition to being incapacitated, can't move or speak
A paralyzed creature fails Strength and Dexterity saving throws
Attack rolls against a paralyzed creature have advantage, and attacks that hit are a crit if the attacker is within 5 feet
A stable creature is no longer stable and must start making death saving throws again if they take damage
A charmed creature cannot target their charmer with attack rolls or any harmful abilities or magic
The charmer has advantage on any ability check used to interact socially with their charmed creature
A frightened creature has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls if the source of its fear within line of sight
A frightened creature can't willingly move closer to the source of its fear
A prone creature has disadvantage on all of its attack rolls until it stands up and ends the condition
An attack role against a prone creature has advantage if the attacker is within 5 feet - otherwise, it has disadvantage
A petrified creature is immune to poison and disease. Petrification only suspends existing poison or disease effects.
A petrified creature is ten times heavier and does not age while petrified
A petrified creature fails Strength and Dexterity saving throws
A petrified creature, in addition to being incapacitated, can't move or speak, and is unaware of its surroundings
Attack rolls against a petrified creature have advantage, though the creature has resistance to all damage
An unconscious creature fails Strength and Dexterity saving throws, and attack rolls against it have advantage
An unconscious creature, in addition to being incapacitated, can't move or speak and is unaware of its surroundings
A stunned creature, in addition to being incapacitated, can't move and can speak only falteringly
A stunned creature fails Strength and Dexterity saving throws, and attack rolls against it have advantage
An incapacitated creature can't take actions or reactions. This often happens in conjunction with other conditions.
A blinded creature's attack rolls have disadvantage, and attack rolls against them have advantage
A deafened creature can't hear and automatically fails any ability check that requires hearing
A restrained creature's speed becomes 0, and it can't benefit from any bonus to its speed
A restrained creature has disadvantage on Dexterity and saving throws
Attack rolls against a restrained creature have advantage, and the creature's attack rolls have disadvantage
When a creature becomes unconscious, it drops whatever it is holding and falls prone
A poisoned creature has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks
A prone creature's only movement options are crawling or using half their movement speed to stand up
Attack rolls against an invisible creature have disadvantage, and its attack rolls have advantage
An invisible creature is impossible to see without the aid of magic or a special sense
You have advantage on attacks against creatures that cannot see you
You have disadvantage on attacks against creatures that you cannot see
Remember if it feels like a trap, it's probably your imagination.
All treasure chests are safe, Go to town!
If you don't come from a Broken family, and have trust issues are you really a character?
I bet you can't win that Barfight.
Fun fact: those who verbally abuse their teammates usually don't see another session.
Improvisation is the real game here.
Do not meddle in the affairs of dragons, for you are crunchy and taste good with ketchup.
In D&D, the options are limitless and the consequences are mandatory.
Generally speaking, if you end up with a fraction while playing D&D, round down.
Generally speaking, if you end up with a tie between two numbers in D&D, whoever rolled wins the tie.
There are no wrong paths, just paths that your DM hasn’t prepared for.
A creature can be Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan in size.
For most rolls, your success is measured by whether you were able to roll higher than a Difficulty Class, or DC. 
For attack rolls, your success is measured by whether you were able to roll higher than an Armor Class, or AC.
This is a tabletopgame, and your DM's responses aren't programmed. Think outside the box.
Be cautious and intelligent, and think things through. D&D does not let you restore from save files. 
Don’t be afraid of a retreat if combat isn’t going well. It may seem cowardly, but cowardice is usually preferable to death.
When the DM asks you “Really? Are you sure?”, you should always say “No.”
Keep track of your buffs, bonuses, abilities, and penalties. Your DM can’t remember everything.
The DM’s role is to play with the players, not against them. As far as you know, anyway.
DMs are always hungry. Bring them food and they may well have mercy on your character.
No matter how much fun you’re having, remember that you’re not the only person at the table.
Try to use your social skills often. Violence isn’t always the answer, and maybe that monster can be reasoned with.
Be sure to take notes on the lore and history of the world. Someone probably worked very hard on it.
DMs love to put traps everywhere. Have your local rogue check around to find and dismantle them.
Get into roleplaying! You might earn an inspiration point, which you can use to get advantage on a future roll.
Each coin is worth 10 coins of the next lowest denomination. Electrum, the worst coin ever, is the exception.
If you are proficient with something, add your proficiency bonus to the roll. Duh.
If the campaign is getting too serious for you, recall that DMs often struggle to keep things serious at taverns.
If your Constitution modifier changes, your hit point maximum changes too, as if you had the new modifier from 1st level.
When you have advantage, roll the d20 twice and take the higher number.
When you have disadvantage, roll the d20 twice and take the lower number.
If you have both disadvantage and advantage, they cancel each other out, even if there are multiple instances of either.
Your Strength score measures how easily you could crush a tomato with your bare hands.
Your Dexterity score measures how well you could dodge a tomato being thrown at you.
Your Constitution score measures whether you could eat a rotten tomato without puking.
Your Intelligence score measures how likely you are to know that a tomato is a fruit.
Your Wisdom score measures how likely you are to know that a tomato shouldn’t be in a fruit salad.
Your Charisma score measures your ability to sell a tomatobased fruit salad – which is, of course, salsa.
With ability checks, rolling a 1 or a 20 does not automatically determine success or failure.
Use Perception checks often to see what’s going on. Or, you know, you can just be oblivious. Up to you.
Suspicious of that NPC’s intent? Roll an Insight check and become even more suspicious!
Use a Persuasion check to win people over, make friends, or haggle! Only complete chumps pay full price!
Performance checks will finally give you the chance to turn your game into a full-on musical.
Athletics checks determine how well you can perform physical activities, like climbing or running.
If you want to know more about the land or the plants and beasts that live upon it, try a Nature check.
Animal Handling checks! They’re good for seeing if you can mount that random creature and…not much else, honestly.
Sleight of Hand checks are great for stealing things. Do them all the time! There’s nothing annoying about them!
An Acrobatics check may be used if you need delicate finesse of motion – or if you really, really want to show off.
Arcana checks relate to your knowledge of magic, eldritch information, mystic tradition, and other nerd crap.
A History check will let you recall lore and finally make you feel cool about passing that test on the Civil War.
Do you want to play a deductive, clever hero, but you’re limited by your feeble human mind? Roll Investigation checks.
Religion checks will let you recall lore about different faiths, but it won’t erase the feeling of sin in your heart.
Nature checks are nice for knowing stuff about the wild, but you’ll need Survival if you want it to not kill you.
Throw out a Deception check if you need to fool someone! Please do this instead of actually lying to your DM.
Intimidation checks are what you use when Persuasion and Deception didn’t work and you’re starting to get pissed off.
In a contest, two participants roll, comparing totals against each other, not against a DC.
If a skill contest results in a tie, the situation before the contest remains unchanged.
In a group check, everybody in the group rolls. If at least half the group succeeds, the check is a success.
Until your next turn, you only get 1 reaction, 1 action, and 1 bonus action.
You can use your reaction to make an opportunity attack when a creature that you can see moves out of your reach.
Use the Dash action if you want to increase your movement speed for the current turn.
If you don’t want an enemy to make an opportunity attack against you as you move away, take the Disengage action.
Worried you’ll get easily murdered? Take the Dodge action and you’ll be a lot harder to hit.
While dodging, you have advantage on Dexterity saving throws.
While dodging, any attack roll made against you has disadvantage if you can see the attacker.
You lose benefits of the Dodge action if you are incapacitated or if your speed drops to 0.
The Hide action will let you make a Stealth check to disappear from sight, should the environment allow it.
The Ready action will let you act using your reaction before your next turn.
To Ready an action, you must specify both a triggering circumstance and what you will do when it happens.
When the trigger for a readied action occurs, you can either take the action or ignore the trigger.
To ready a spell, it must have a casting time of 1 action, and 
Holding it until you’re ready to cast requires concentration.
The Search action may let you use a Perception check or an Investigation check to look around.
In lightly obscured areas (e.g. dim light, patchy fog, or modest foliage), Perception checks with sight have disadvantage.
In heavily obscured areas (e.g. darkness, opaque fog, or dense foliage), creatures are effectively blinded.
Bright light, provided by daylight and most light sources within a certain radius, lets most creatures see normally. 
Dim light, provided by dawn, dusk, and a full moon, is normally a boundary between bright light and darkness.
Darkness, provided by nighttime, unlit areas, or magical darkness, keeps most creatures from seeing normally.
A creature with blindsight can perceive its surroundings without sight, kinda like Daredevil. 
Within a specified range, a creature with darkvision can see in darkness as if the darkness were dim light.
A creature with darkvision can’t discern color in darkness, only monochromatic shades.
Within a specified range, a creature with truesight can see pretty much everything. Yes, even that, you weirdo.
At the end of a fall, a creature takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 10 feet it fell, to a maximum of 20d6.
Unless it avoids taking damage from a fall, a creature lands prone at the end of that fall.
A creature can hold its breath for a number of minutes equal to 1 + its Constitution modifier (minimum of 30 seconds).
When a creature has no air, it can survive for a number of rounds equal to its Constitution modifier (minimum of 1 round).
When it can no longer survive without air, a suffocating creature drops to 0 hit points and is dying.
A suffocating creature can’t regain hit points or be stabilized until it can breathe again.
Until you are discovered or stop hiding, your Stealth check is contested by Perception checks of anyone actively searching.
Passive Perception determines if a creature notices something even if they’re not actively searching for it.
You can’t hide from a creature that can see you clearly, and you give away your position if you make noise.
A party traveling at a slow pace goes 200 feet in a minute, 2 miles in an hour, and 18 miles in a day.
A party traveling at a slow pace can use Stealth as they move.
A party traveling at a normal pace goes 300 feet in a minute, 3 miles in an hour, and 24 miles in a day.
A party traveling at a fast pace goes 400 feet in a minute, 4 miles in an hour, and 30 miles in a day.
A party traveling at a fast pace will suffer a -5 penalty to passive Perception scores.
To cast a spell, you must expend a slot of its level or higher. Cantrips come for free.
To cast a spell with a somatic component, you need free use of at least one hand to perform the gestures.
To cast a spell with a verbal component, you need to be able to speak.
To cast a spell with costless material components, you need those components, a component pouch, or a spellcasting focus.
To cast a spell with material components that have costs, you need to have those specific components.
If a spell states that a material component is consumed by the spell, you must provide that component for each casting.
Some spells require concentration to maintain an ongoing effect, and you can’t concentrate on two spells at once.
To keep concentration, roll a Constitution save if you take damage. The DC is 10 or half the damage, whichever is higher.
You can’t concentrate if you’re incapacitated or dead. Do we really have to spell that one out for you? Geez.
You may need to make a DC 10 Constitution save to maintain spell concentration if your surroundings are distracting.
Your attack bonus with spells equals your spellcasting ability modifier plus your proficiency bonus.
Your spell save DC equals your spellcasting ability modifier plus your proficiency bonus plus 8.
If your spell has an attack, you roll. If your spell has a save, the enemy rolls.
Long rests restore all expended spell slots, although a few class options can get some back with a short rest.
If you’re wearing armor, you need to be proficient in that armor in order to cast spells.
Some spells can be cast at higher levels for more powerful effects, and some cantrips get more powerful at higher levels.
Some spells can be cast as a rituals. Doing so takes 10 minutes longer but doesn’t expend a spell slot.
Some spells can have different areas of effect in all sorts of shapes and sizes.
Most spells have a range that specify what you can target. Some can only affect you.
The effects of the same spell cast multiple times don’t stack. Only the most potent effect applies.
The effects of different spells add together while the durations of those spells overlap.
if you cast a spell as a bonus action, you can't cast a noncantrip spell during your turn.
Some spellcasters know their spells and can always cast them. Other classes need to prepare spells from a list.
For spells that take longer than an action to cast, you must spend your action each turn concentrating and casting it.
There’s more to a fight than just attacking! Consult your DM for other actions you can take in combat.
Initiative determines turn order in combat. Your initiative bonus is usually just your Dexterity modifier.
A round of combat roughly translates to 6 seconds of ingame time.
If you are vulnerable to a damage type, you take double damage from that type.
If you are resistant to a damage type, you take half damage from that type.
Multiple instances of vulnerability or resistance only count once each.
If you roll a 1 on an attack roll, you automatically miss your attack.
If you roll a 20 on an attack roll, you automatically hit and roll all of the damage dice twice before adding modifiers.
Ranged attacks have disadvantage if the target is beyond regular range but still within long range.
Ranged attacks cannot hit targets outside of the weapon’s long range.
Your ranged attack rolls have disadvantage if an enemy that isn’t incapacitated is within 5 feet of you and can see you.
When you reduce a creature to 0 hit points with a melee attack, you can decide to knock it out instead of killing it.
A target with half cover has a +2 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws. 
A target with three-quarters cover has a +5 bonus to AC and Dexterity saving throws.
A target with total cover can’t be targeted directly by an attack or a spell, though area of effect spells are fair game.
Using the attack action, you can make a melee attack to shove a creature, either to knock it prone or push it away.
To push a target, it must be no more than one size larger than you and must be within your reach. 
To push a target, you make an Athletics check contested by the target’s Athletics or Acrobatics check.
To make a melee attack against a creature, it must be within your reach. Most creatures have a 5-foot reach.
You can use an unarmed strike to make a melee attack without a weapon.
You are proficient in your unarmed strikes, and they deal bludgeoning damage equal to 1 + your Strength modifier.
You can use a bonus action to attack with a light melee weapon after attacking with one in your other hand.
When two-weapon fighting, only add your modifier to the damage of the second attack if it’s negative.
Using the Attack action, you can make a melee attack to grapple a creature if you have one free hand.
To grapple a target, it must be no more than one size larger than you and must be within your reach. 
To grapple a target, you make an Athletics check contested by the target’s Athletics or Acrobatics check.
Unless the creature you are grappling is much smaller than you, your speed is halved while dragging or carrying it.
A Grappled creature can use its action to escape, making an Athletics or Acrobatics check contested by an Athletics check.
You have disadvantage on attacks against creatures that you cannot see.
You have advantage on attacks against creatures that cannot see you.
Have an impairing condition? Ask your DM what it means. You might have to change up your strategy.
A blinded creature can’t see and automatically fails all checks that requires sight.
A blinded creature’s attack rolls have disadvantage, and attack rolls against them have advantage.
A charmed creature cannot target their charmer with attack rolls or any harmful abilities or magic.
The charmer has advantage on any ability check used to interact socially with their charmed creature.
A deafened creature can’t hear and automatically fails any ability check that requires hearing.
A frightened creature has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls if the source of its fear is within line of sight.
A frightened creature can’t willingly move closer to the source of its fear.
A grappled creature’s speed becomes 0, and it can’t benefit from any bonus to its speed.
The grappled condition ends if the grappler is incapacitated or an effect moves the grappled creature out of reach.
An incapacitated creature can’t take actions or reactions. This often happens in conjunction with other conditions.
An invisible creature is impossible to see without the aid of magic or a special sense. 
With regards to hiding, an invisible creature is heavily obscured. It may be detected by any noise or tracks it creates.
Attack rolls against an invisible creature have disadvantage, and its attack rolls have advantage.
A paralyzed creature, in addition to being incapacitated, can’t move or speak.
Attack rolls against a paralyzed creature have advantage, and attack that hits is a crit if the attacker is within 5 feet.
A paralyzed creature fails Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
A petrified creature is made of a solid inanimate substance, as are all nonmagical objects it is wearing or carrying.
A petrified creature is ten times heavier and does not age while petrified.
A petrified creature, in addition to being incapacitated, can’t move or speak, and is unaware of its surroundings.
A petrified creature fails Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
Attack rolls against a petrified creature have advantage, though the creature has resistance to all damage.
A poisoned creature has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
A prone creature’s only movement options are crawling or using half their movement speed to stand up.
An attack roll against a prone creature has advantage if the attacker is within 5 feet – otherwise, it has disadvantage.
A prone creature has disadvantage on all of its attack rolls until it stands up and ends the condition.
A restrained creature’s speed becomes 0, and it can’t benefit from any bonus to its speed.
Attack rolls against a restrained creature have advantage, and the creature’s attack rolls have disadvantage.
A restrained creature has disadvantage on Dexterity saving throws.
A stunned creature, in addition to being incapacitated, can’t move and can speak only falteringly.
A stunned creature fails Strength and Dexterity saving throws, and attack rolls against it have advantage.
An unconscious creature, in addition to being incapacitated, can’t move or speak and is unaware of its surroundings.
When a creature becomes unconscious, it drops whatever it is holding and falls prone.
An unconscious creature fails Strength and Dexterity saving throws, and attack rolls against it have advantage.
An attack roll that hits an unconscious creature is a crit if the attacker is within 5 feet of the creature.
At the first level of exhaustion, you have disadvantage on ability checks.
At the second level of exhaustion, in addition to prior effects, your speed is halved.
At the third level of exhaustion, in addition to prior effects, you have disadvantage on attack rolls and saving throws.
At the fourth level of exhaustion, in addition to prior effects, your hit point maximum is halved.
At the fifth level of exhaustion, in addition to prior effects, your speed is reduced to 0.
At the sixth level of exhaustion, you no longer suffer prior effects! You do, however, die immediately.
Long rests reduce your exhaustion level by 1, provided that you had some food and drink.
Underwater, your melee weapon attacks have disadvantage – unless you have a swimming speed or the right weapon.
Underwater, daggers, javelins, shortswords, spears, and tridents do not automatically have disadvantage.
Underwater, ranged weapons automatically miss outside of their normal range.
Underwater, ranged weapons have disadvantage, unless the weapon is a crossbow, a net, or a thrown weapon.
Creatures and objects that are fully immersed in water have resistance to fire damage.
Any willing creature that is at least one size larger than you and that has an appropriate anatomy can be your mount.
Once during your move, you can mount a creature within 5 feet or dismount. Doing so costs half your movement speed.
If an effect moves your mount against its will while you're on it, you must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fall off.
If an effect knocks you prone while you’re mounted, you must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fall off.
If you are knocked off of your mount, you land prone in a space within 5 feet of it.
If your mount is knocked prone, you can use your reaction to dismount as it falls and land on your feet.
While mounted, you can either control your mount if it’s been trained to accept a rider or have it act independently.
Intelligent creatures, like dragons, sphinxes, and especially smart horses, act independently when used as a mount.
Controlled mounts match your initiative order when you mount them and can move and act as soon as you mount them.
Controlled mounts can only take three actions: Dash, Disengage, and Dodge.
Independent mounts maintain their own initiative order. They move and act as they wish, not restricted by their riders. 
If your mount provokes an attack of opportunity while you’re on it, the attacker can target either you or the mount.
Your carrying capacity is, in pounds, your Strength score multiplied by 15.
You can push, drag, or lift a weight in pounds up to your Strength score multiplied by 30.
While pushing or dragging weight in excess of your carrying capacity, your speed drops to 5 feet. 
Rules for lifting and carrying are intentionally simple. If they’re too easy, you can use the variant encumbrance rules.
When using the variant encumbrance rules, ignore the strength column of the Armor table.
If you carry weight in excess of 5 times your Strength score, you are encumbered, which means your speed drops by 10 feet. 
If you carry weight in excess of 10 times your Strength score, you are heavily encumbered.
While you are heavily encumbered, your speed drops by 20 feet.
While you are heavily encumbered, you have disadvantage on all rolls that use Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution.
Weapons with the Ammunition property need some kind of ammo to be used, and each attack expends one piece of ammo.
After combat, you can recover half of your expended ammunition by taking the Search action.
A weapon with the Finesse property can be used with either your Dexterity or Strength modifier.
A weapon with the Heavy property will impose disadvantage on Small creatures attempting to use it.
A weapon with the Light property can be used in with twoweapon fighting.
A weapon with the Loading property can only be fired once when you use an action, bonus action, or reaction.
A weapon with the Range property can be used to make ranged attacks.
A weapon with the Reach property adds 5 feet to your reach for the purposes of attacks and opportunity attacks with it.
A weapon with the Thrown property can be thrown as a ranged attack, using the same modifier as its melee attack.
A weapon with the Two-Handed property requires two hands when you attack with it.
A weapon with the Versatile property can be used with one hand, but if you want more damage, you can use two hands.
When you switch movement types, subtract the distance you’ve already moved from the new speed.
You can break up your movement on your turn, using some of your speed before and after your action.
You can squeeze through a space if it’s large enough for a creature one size smaller than you.
When squeezing, climbing, swimming, crawling, or being on rough terrain, each foot of movement costs an extra foot.
When squeezing through a space, you have disadvantage on attack rolls and Dexterity saving throws.
When squeezing through a space, attack rolls made against you have advantage.
On long jumps, you cover a number of feet up to your Strength score if you have a 10 foot running start.
Long jumps without a running start only cover a number of feet up to half of your Strength score.
On high jumps, you cover a number of feet up to 3 + your Strength modifier if you have a 10 foot running start.
High jumps without a running start only cover a number of feet up to half of your Strength modifier.
There are no negative hit points. If you take damage that exceeds your remaining health, your hit points go to 0.
A creature that has died can’t regain hit points until some kind of resurrecting magic has restored it to life.
Don’t freak out if you reach 0 hit points! You’re not dead, just dying.
At 0 hit points, you start making death saving throws, which have no bonuses you can add. It’s just you and fate.
If you roll a 1 on a death saving throw, it counts as two failures.
If you roll lower than 10 but higher than 1 on a death saving throw, it counts as a failure.
If you take any damage while at 0 Hit Points, even if you’re stable, it counts as a death saving throw failure.
After three failed death saving throws, your character is dead.
If you roll a 10 or higher on a death saving throw, it counts as a success.
If you roll a 20 on a death saving throw, you regain 1 hit point.
After three successful death saving throws, you become stable. You’re not dead, just unconscious.
If you’re stable, but not healed, you regain 1 hit point after 1d4 hours.
A stable creature is no longer stable and must start making death saving throws again if they take damage.
You can stabilize a dying creature with a successful DC 10 Medicine check.
If you’re at 0 hit points, temporary hit points won’t wake you up. Only real healing can do the job.
When damage reduces you to 0 hit points, you die if the extra damage equals or exceeds your hit point maximum.
A short rest is at least 1 hour during which you do nothing strenuous.
During short rests, you can recover hit points by rolling your hit dice, adding your Constitution modifier each time.
A long rest is at least 8 hours during which you do nothing strenuous.
During long rests, you can recover all lost hit points and up to half of your total hit dice.
You can use time between adventures to tend to poisons, injuries, and diseases.
You can use time between adventures to do research and see what mysteries can be unfurled.
You can use time between adventures to learn a new language or how to use a new set of tools.
According to monster opticians, a beholder’s eyesight is 20:20:20:20:20:20:20:20:20:20:14.
Just because you can do it, doesn’t mean you should, but it does mean you probably will.
It is entirely valid to take a potion orally or as a suppository.
Take notes. Take notes. Take notes. Take notes. Take notes. Take notes. Take notes. Take notes. Take notes. Take notes. 
You can save your progress in D&D by politely asking your DM to remember things.
You can start a new save file in D&D by striking your DM on the head with a heavy object.
You can pause the game in D&D by standing up and walking away from the table.
You can open the options menu in D&D by writing a question on a sheet of paper and discreetly passing it to your DM.
You can take a screenshot in D&D by touching your d20, your character sheet, and a pencil at the same time.
You can make encounters easier by being more careful, communicating with your party, and bribing the DM.
Lawful Good doesn’t mean Lawful Nice and Chaotic Neutral doesn’t mean Chaotic Stupid.
If your Chaotic Neutral character decides to murder random people, you’re not playing a Neutral character.
Contrary to popular belief, for many things in a dungeon, you probably would want to touch it with a ten foot pole first.
Lawful characters obey a set of rules and always look both ways before crossing the street.
Chaotic characters don’t hold themselves to rules and won’t put their tray tables up just because you told them to.
Good characters put others above themselves and will always pay back that money you lent them.
Evil characters put themselves above others and will eat the last slice of pizza without asking anyone first.
Neutral characters have no particular sway toward a given axis and often list mayonnaise as their favorite condiment.
Unaligned creatures don’t comprehend the alignment concept. Players cannot be unaligned unless they’re very dense.
Winning combat is easy! Just reduce your opponents to 0 hit points while keeping your hit points above 0.
Valor pleases you, so grant me one request: play barbarian! And if you do not listen, then to hell with you!
Is your party dull? Are you not flirting with enough NPCs? Does your DM feel happy? Consider playing a bard.
Play a cleric if you like worshipping fake gods and being under immense pressure to save the rest of your party.
If it’s your first time playing D&D, you like the simple things, or you’re gonna be on your phone all night, play fighter.
Playing monk is a great experience! Just get all the kung fu movie jokes out of your system before the game.
Paladins: they’re just like clerics, but with fewer commitment issues and more sharp objects to stab things with.
Play ranger to feel the thrill of the hunt, the wind in your hair, and a ferret crawling around in your tunic.
I’d give you a good reason to play a rogue, but let’s be honest, your party probably already has 3.
Spells rock, but books are for nerds. Play sorcerer to flex your magic and shun silly things like “reading.”
If you play warlock, you have a lot of combat options, like eldritch blast, eldritch blast, and even eldritch blast!
Play a wizard if you want a character who likes writing things down and doing math just as much as you.
Abjuration is the school of protective magic, perfect for people who claimed to have a force field in schoolyard games.
With Conjuration magic, you can take the D&D tradition of making things up to its logical extreme.
You can use Divination magic to absolutely destroy any hopes your DM had of creating mystery and intrigue.
Enchantment magic affects the minds of others. If you terrify the rogue with a sudden fireball, it’s technically Enchantment.
Illusion magic deceives the minds of others, which is totally different from Enchantment, and way cooler, mom.
Necromancy manipulates life and death energies. You can’t cast these spells unless 60% of your wardrobe is black.
Alter the properties of objects with Transmutation and learn the joy of turning everything into a goat.
You don't need a weapon when you're armed with imagination.
When you reload a Tediore crossbow, it explodes like a grenade.
Villagers aren't worth very many experience points… if you kill one that is, be afraid.
The mysterious newcomer in town is always looking for you.
Just because you can get into hideout doesn't mean you should.
If you can't remember, the breath weapon is pointed at you.
Searching your inventory, hoping to find a magic item you forgot about that will (somehow) get you out of this tough situation is a full-round action.
Villagers are like chickens in Zelda...kill one and find out.
A platinum is worth 10 gold. A gold is worth 10 silver. A silver is worth 10 copper. Electrum is worth 5 silver, and is therefore stupid.
Remember if the dragon is metallic, it's probably friendly.
The quickest way to end a campaign is to break the 4th wall.
The most dangerous character in a tavern is the bartender.
Pissed off ancient dragons have nothing on an annoyed and creative DM.
Combat is not always necessary. Diplomacy, stealth and subterfuge can prove more effective in the right situation.
Splitting the party can take an otherwise easy fight and make it impossible.
Fighting over some cool magic item your party runs across can derail an entire campaign.
Minions can sometimes prove as dangerous as the boss. Make sure to not get overwhelmed by the number of them.
Treasure can sometimes be found in the strangest of places. Exploring your location can often reveal secrets you would never have otherwise noticed. 
Don’t be afraid to really flex your creativity. Dangling from the chandelier to hide from an enemy before flying off the handle into a rage might not give you an edge, but it would be fun as hell.
During combat, the other player's turns are your time to prepare. Consider your actions, review the rules, and be ready to rock when your turn comes up.
Initiative is also effected by the Bard's Jack of All Trades feature.
A tactical retreat is always an option.
Spend time bonding with your party. A little camaraderie has stopped more knives in the back than any armor.
he smart choice isn't always the fun one, and the fun choice isn't always the smart one. Do you want to dominate the battlefield, or do you want to have an awesome dog as your animal companion? It all comes down to what you want out of the game.
Think outside the box. Use the battlefield to your advantage. Use items in ways they were never meant to be used. The biggest limit on what you can do is not your skills -- it's your own creativity.
Don't be afraid to bring up problems with your DM. A good DM wants all their players to have fun, even if it means making some changes to their campaign.
Read your character sheet, you never know what forgotten ability might come in handy.
The oozes may look delicious, but please don’t digest them.
Just because I asked them to roll a perception check, doesn’t mean you get to as well.
Can’t carry enough loot? Hire a lackey!”
Share magic items to stop fist fights at the table.
A natural 20 doesn't allow you to do the impossible.
The PHB is more like guidelines than actual rules.
Splitting the party is ALWAYS a good idea!
Please don't place that portable hole inside your bag of holding... No seriously, please don't...
Contrary to popular belief, fire can kill a dragon!
Magic often requires the caster to perform complex gestures and recite ancient incantations aloud. Remember that next time you ask if you can discreetly cast a spell on someone.
Just because there’s a bunch of skeletons around it, doesn’t mean that magic item is cursed. Sometimes.
Just because the DM put that monster there doesn’t mean you’re able to kill it.
A bag of sand has has saved many an adventurer when used right.
When in doubt, Eldritch Blast it out.
Having at least one party member skilled in social abilities will make your work much smoother.
If you can, keep a healing potion on you for the bleakest of situations.
Assume every and all treasure chests will try to eat you...or explode.
If he looks evil, he most definitely is.
Visit the local tavern first thing in a new town. All the interesting things happen there.
On dragons: Gold and metals, sunshine and petals. Black or red, you're most likely dead.
Wishes are as good as curses
If it was too easy... it probably was. Check for dopplegangers.
Did you check it for traps?
If a Devil offers you ultimate power, take it. What's the worst that can happen?
Avoid the Great Hall.
When in doubt, let the Barbarian open it.
Bags and Holes don't mix.
Ask for more information about everything. It might yield results.
Not all merchants are receptive to haggling.
Magic items always seem nice, but some can harbor dark curses.
Take notes on everything. Thank me later.
When camping, it's always a good idea to have someone on watch duty.
Lycanthropes come in many different shapes and sizes.
Did you charge your spell gem today?
Certain effects, like Great Weapon Mastery and Reckless attacks, must be declared before you roll.
Try to quickly learn the laws of any new land or city you arrive in.
Not every fight must be to the death. There's no shame in retreat or surrender.
You can knock an opponent unconscious instead of killing them, if you do it with a melee weapon.
Monsters are just like you. Try feeding them.
Don't backsass the Fey.
The smaller the dragon, the larger the mother.
Research your enemy. Fire resistance is meaningless against a lightning bolt.
Water breathing is a start, but it's not aquatic adaptation.
Remember which of your allies need their weapons, armor, spellbooks, and which don't. The former are your second-best friends, the latter are your best friends.
If your fingers are quick, you can steal things you need or want. But there's nothing you can get from a greataxe-wielding barbarian that you can't get more easily elsewhere.
Opportunity attacks are tempting, but they can use up valuable time you might need for something else.
Music soothes the savage beast, and is more helpful than you might think.
You will never encounter a situation where you have too much rope.
Fair loot distribution substantially lessens the chance of suboptimal party outcomes.
With enough strength and determination, any door is just a suggestion.
Pick a variety of spells. What good is fireball against a devil?
Be good to your clerics. Be shame if you died and they misplaced their materials for revivify.
Sometimes retreating is the best option. A heroic death is worth nothing if there's no one to tell your story.
When in doubt, assume it's trapped. Or cursed. Or both.
Never let your enemies call for reinforcements. 2 goblins are easy to handle. 40 not so much.
If your situation seems dire, try something unexpected. It probably can't get worse.
Be careful around those who offer deals. A silver tongue often conceals a black heart.
Always keep an eye on the bard.
Don't block a raging barbarian.